title,abstract,trap_type
"Effect of Enzymatic Crosslinking on Gel Strength and Water Holding Capacity of Bovine Gelatin","Gelatin is a widely used protein ingredient valued for its gelling and water holding properties, but native gelatin gels are often thermally unstable. This study investigated microbial transglutaminase treatment (0 to 10 U/g protein) on bovine hide gelatin. Crosslinked gelatin exhibited a 42% increase in gel strength and improved water holding capacity from 68% to 89% compared to untreated controls. SDS-PAGE confirmed high molecular weight polymer formation. These results suggest enzymatic modification is an effective strategy for enhancing the functional performance of gelatin-based food systems.",animal_source
"Ultrasound-Assisted Modification of Egg White Protein Foaming Properties","Foaming capacity is a critical functional property for protein ingredients used in bakery and confectionery applications. This work examined the impact of high intensity ultrasound (20 kHz, 100 to 400 W) on egg white protein isolate. Ultrasonicated samples showed foaming capacity increased from 112% to 187%, while foam stability after 30 minutes improved by 35%. Particle size analysis revealed partial protein unfolding without significant aggregation. Circular dichroism confirmed secondary structure changes consistent with increased surface hydrophobicity. Ultrasound treatment is proposed as a mild, non-thermal method to enhance egg protein functionality.",animal_source
"pH-Shifting Processing Improves Solubility of Whey Protein Isolate Under Acidic Conditions","Whey protein isolate has limited solubility near its isoelectric point, restricting its use in acidic beverages. This study applied pH-shifting treatment (pH 12 for 30 min followed by neutralization) to whey protein isolate and evaluated solubility across pH 3 to 7. Treated samples showed solubility increases from 22% to 71% at pH 4.5. Differential scanning calorimetry indicated partial denaturation and refolding during processing. Zeta potential measurements confirmed altered surface charge distribution. The pH-shifting approach offers a practical route to expand whey protein isolate applications in low pH food formulations.",animal_source
"High Hydrostatic Pressure Treatment Enhances Emulsifying Activity of Porcine Blood Plasma Protein","Porcine blood plasma protein is an underutilized byproduct with potential as a functional food ingredient. High hydrostatic pressure (200 to 600 MPa, 10 min) was applied to evaluate changes in emulsifying activity and emulsion stability. Emulsifying activity index increased from 18.4 to 34.7 m2/g following 400 MPa treatment, while emulsion stability improved by 28%. Protein solubility and surface hydrophobicity both increased with pressure level up to 400 MPa before declining at higher pressures. Results indicate moderate pressure treatment can improve the functional properties of blood plasma protein for meat product applications.",animal_source
"Glycation via Maillard Reaction Improves Emulsifying Stability of Chicken Egg Yolk Protein","Chicken egg yolk protein is commonly used as an emulsifier, though its stability under thermal processing is limited. This study conjugated egg yolk protein with dextran through controlled dry heating (60 degrees C, 60% relative humidity) to induce Maillard-type glycation. Glycated samples exhibited a 45% improvement in emulsion stability after heat treatment at 90 degrees C and reduced droplet coalescence during 14 days of storage. FTIR spectra confirmed covalent conjugation between protein and polysaccharide. Glycation is presented as an effective strategy for improving the thermal functional stability of egg yolk-based emulsifiers.",animal_source
"Phosphorylation Modification of Bovine Casein Micelles and Its Effect on Solubility and Gelation","Bovine casein is widely applied in dairy formulations due to its gelation and solubility characteristics. This study used sodium tripolyphosphate treatment to induce phosphorylation of casein micelles and assessed resulting functional changes. Phosphorylated casein showed a 30% increase in solubility at neutral pH and formed gels with 25% higher storage modulus than untreated casein. Calcium binding capacity increased significantly following modification, as confirmed by atomic absorption spectroscopy. The findings demonstrate that phosphorylation is a viable chemical modification route for tailoring casein functionality in dairy product development.",animal_source
"Effect of Pulsed Electric Field Processing on Foaming and Viscosity of Duck Egg White Protein","Duck egg white protein possesses functional properties similar to chicken egg white but remains comparatively understudied. This research applied pulsed electric field treatment (15 to 25 kV/cm) to duck egg white protein isolate and measured resulting changes in foaming capacity and apparent viscosity. Treated samples exhibited foaming capacity gains of up to 52% and a viscosity reduction of 18% at 100 s-1 shear rate. Protein unfolding and increased free sulfhydryl content were confirmed by fluorescence spectroscopy. These results support pulsed electric field as a non-thermal processing method for modifying egg-derived protein functionality.",animal_source
"Microwave Treatment Alters Thermal Stability and Gel Properties of Sheep Milk Whey Protein","Sheep milk whey protein is gaining interest as an alternative dairy ingredient with distinct functional characteristics. In this study, microwave treatment (700 W, 30 to 90 s) was used to modify sheep whey protein isolate, and its thermal stability and gelation behavior were evaluated. Denaturation temperature increased by 4.2 degrees C after 60 s treatment, and gel hardness improved by 33% compared to untreated protein. Differential scanning calorimetry and rheological analysis confirmed structural reorganization consistent with partial protein aggregation. Microwave processing is proposed as a rapid method for enhancing whey protein functional performance.",animal_source
"Ultrafiltration Fractionation Improves Water Holding Capacity of Bovine Hide Collagen Hydrolysate","Collagen hydrolysates derived from bovine hide are commonly incorporated into food products for their water binding and textural contributions. This study fractionated collagen hydrolysate by ultrafiltration into three molecular weight ranges and evaluated water holding capacity and viscosity. The 3 to 10 kDa fraction exhibited water holding capacity of 6.8 g/g, significantly higher than the unfractionated hydrolysate at 4.1 g/g. Amino acid composition analysis showed enrichment of glycine and proline in the higher functionality fraction. These findings support molecular weight fractionation as a means to enhance collagen hydrolysate functionality for food applications.",animal_source
"Deamidation Treatment Enhances Solubility and Interfacial Properties of Pork Skin Gelatin","Pork skin gelatin exhibits limited solubility and interfacial activity at neutral pH, restricting its use in acidic and low ionic strength systems. This study applied enzymatic deamidation using protein glutaminase to modify pork skin gelatin and evaluated resulting functional properties. Deamidated gelatin showed a 3.5-fold increase in solubility at pH 7 and a 40% reduction in interfacial tension at the oil water interface. Circular dichroism spectra indicated reduced triple helix content following treatment. The results indicate deamidation is an effective strategy for broadening the functional application range of gelatin.",animal_source
"Freeze-Drying Process Parameters Affect Aggregation Behavior and Solubility of Goat Milk Casein","Goat milk casein is valued for its distinct micelle structure and potential hypoallergenic properties, yet processing effects on its functionality remain underexplored. This study examined how freeze-drying shelf temperature (minus 40 to minus 10 degrees C) influenced goat casein aggregation and solubility. Samples dried at minus 10 degrees C exhibited greater particle aggregation and a solubility decrease to 61%, compared to 88% for samples dried at minus 40 degrees C. Scanning electron microscopy revealed denser, more collapsed microstructures at higher drying temperatures. Optimized freeze-drying conditions are recommended to preserve goat casein functional solubility.",animal_source
"Acid Hydrolysis Modification of Chicken Feather Keratin for Improved Foaming and Emulsifying Properties","Chicken feather keratin is a low-value poultry byproduct with potential for upcycling into functional protein ingredients. This study applied controlled acid hydrolysis (0.5 to 2.0 M HCl) to feather keratin and assessed resulting foaming and emulsifying properties. Foaming capacity increased from 8% in native keratin to 64% after moderate hydrolysis, while emulsifying activity index rose to 22.1 m2/g. Molecular weight distribution analysis confirmed hydrolysis produced peptides predominantly in the 2 to 15 kDa range. These results suggest acid hydrolysis can convert keratin byproducts into viable functional protein ingredients.",animal_source
"Spray Drying Conditions Influence Rheological Properties and Gelation of Beef Myofibrillar Protein Isolate","Beef myofibrillar protein contributes essential gelation and viscosity characteristics to processed meat products. This study evaluated the effect of spray drying inlet temperature (150 to 190 degrees C) on the rheological and gel-forming properties of extracted myofibrillar protein isolate. Protein dried at 170 degrees C retained the highest gel storage modulus and lowest denaturation loss, while higher temperatures caused a 38% reduction in gelation capacity. Protein solubility declined progressively with increasing drying temperature. Findings indicate that moderate spray drying temperatures best preserve the functional gelation properties of myofibrillar protein isolate.",animal_source
"Effect of Dry Heat Treatment on Solubility and Emulsifying Properties of Camel Milk Casein","Camel milk casein differs structurally from bovine casein and has drawn interest for novel dairy applications. This study subjected camel milk casein to dry heat treatment (100 to 140 degrees C, up to 60 min) and measured changes in solubility and emulsifying activity. Moderate heating at 120 degrees C for 30 min increased solubility by 19% and emulsifying activity index by 24%, while prolonged heating above 45 min caused excessive aggregation and reduced functionality. Free sulfhydryl group analysis indicated partial unfolding without extensive crosslinking under optimal conditions. Controlled dry heating is proposed as a means to tailor camel casein functional properties.",animal_source
"Enzymatic Hydrolysis Modifies Viscosity and Water Holding Capacity of Rabbit Meat Protein Concentrate","Rabbit meat protein concentrate is an emerging lean protein ingredient with potential functional applications in processed foods. This study applied papain hydrolysis (0.5 to 3% enzyme to substrate ratio) to rabbit meat protein concentrate and assessed resulting viscosity and water holding capacity. Mild hydrolysis (1% enzyme) increased water holding capacity from 3.2 to 5.6 g/g while reducing apparent viscosity by 45% at 50 s-1 shear rate. Degree of hydrolysis was confirmed by ninhydrin assay and SDS-PAGE peptide profiling. These results suggest controlled enzymatic hydrolysis is an effective method for tuning rabbit protein concentrate functionality in food systems.",animal_source